---
title: Asynchronous JavaScript function settings
description: How to set asynchronous JavaScript settings.
---

<!--
README

For guidance on how to write documenation, see https://dev.stage.spread.ai/docs/contributor/guide.html. Contact Documentation when this document is ready for review.
-->

The asynchronous function allows you to choose when you want to execute code. For example, you may want to delay the query execution or fetch the data on demand.

## Defining an asynchronous function

In the Studio environment, a function is termed as **async** if you are performing one of the below actions:

* You have an `async` keyword that marks the asynchronous execution of the function.

```js
export default{
     functionName: async() => {
          // Code here use async-await or promises.
     }
}
```

* You have any in-built Studio functions like `showModal()`, `showAlert()`, and so on, added in the function block.
* You want to execute a query or call an API on run time. For example, you have an API `GetUsersList,` and you want to call this API on runtime; whenever the JS Object function `callAPI()` is executed. Your function may look as below:

```js
export default {
     callAPI: () => {
          GetUsersList.run();
     }
}
```

The line of code `GetUsersList.run()` marks the function `callAPI()` for asynchronous execution and hence `callAPI` function is considered asynchronous. The JavaScript Editor in Studio provides some additional settings for asynchronous functions that helps you add more configurations. You can specify the settings in the **Settings** tab.

## Settings

You’ll see the **Settings** tab next to **Code** whenever you have added an **asynchronous function** to a JS Object. Head to the **Settings** tab and select it to reveal additional configurations. Let’s quickly dive into these configurations to understand how they help you make your application behavior better.

1. Navigate to **JS Object**. You’ll see **Settings** next to **Code**
2. Click **Settings** to reveal configurations.
3. You see two settings to configure for asynchronous functions:

* `RUN ON PAGE LOAD`
* `CONFIRM BEFORE CALLING`

The settings are available at the function level. For every asynchronous function defined, you’ll have a corresponding configuration available for a run on page load and confirm before calling.

### RUN ON PAGE LOAD

As the name suggests, you can use the configuration to mark that your function is executed whenever a page is loaded. For example, you have a page `User Listing` and have added a JS object with the function `GetUserRole` which fetches the user’s role. You want that the query should be executed at the time of page load so that the logged-in user is able to see the user listing. To get this working, you have to set the **RUN ON PAGE LOAD** configuration as **YES** for the `GetUserRole` function. Once the configuration is in place, the function `GetUserRole` is executed whenever the app is loaded and the response generated by it is displayed on the page.

By default, **RUN ON PAGE LOAD** is turned on for functions that display data on a widget. That is, the widget binds to the response generated by **`JSObjectName.asynFunctionName.data`**. In this case, the on-page load is automatically set as true. You can explicitly change this setting to suit your logic in the **Settings** tab.

If you wish to delay the call of function on demand, then select **No**. It marks that the function isn't called on page load, and the execution is deferred until called on demand by calling the function.

### CONFIRM BEFORE CALLING

With this setting, you can generate a confirmation pop-up and take the user’s input for executing the function. For example, the JS object has the function `deletePermission` which calls an API that deletes the database’s permission. You would want to ensure that the user wants to delete permission, in which case, you would like to show a confirmation dialog. The confirmation dialog ensures that the user wants to perform a delete action. A user can choose **Yes** to delete or can decline the same by choosing **No**. Thus, `Confirm Before Calling` comes in handy to protect against users accidentally running destructive operations.

#### Configure confirm before calling

Confirmation is like a nudge given to the user before executing a function. It ensures that the user is aware of the action that would be performed, and the same is not triggered by chance. A confirmation setting can only be defined explicitly from the Settings tab.

Navigate to **JS Object**, select **Settings**, select **Yes** for **CONFIRM BEFORE CALLING** next to the JavaScript function. Studio takes care of executing and showing the confirmation dialog to the user whenever the action is triggered.

## When to use Asynchronous settings

Asynchronous function settings enable users to create complex workflows by executing functions before the application loads, allowing the data manipulation logic to run and make the desired outcome: secure function execution with a confirmation before you want application users to execute any critical operations.
